add blog about working with tabular data using FastAI.jl (#94)
FluxML/fluxml.github.io: blog/_posts/2021-07-09-FastAI-tabular-data.md

---
title: Working with Tabular Data in FastAI.jl
author: Manikya Bardhan
layout: blog
---

> [FastAI.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/FastAI.jl) is a package inspired by [fastai](https://github.com/fastai/fastai), and it's goal is to easily enable creating state-of-the-art models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[FastAI.jl](https://github.com/FluxML/FastAI.jl) is a package inspired by [fastai](https://github.com/fastai/fastai), and its goal is to easily enable the creating state-of-the-art deep learning models.
```

> This blog post shows how to get started on working with tabular data using FastAI.jl and related packages. The work being presented here was done as a part of [GSoC'21](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/projects/#5088642453733376) under the mentorship of Kyle Daruwalla, Brian Chen and Lorenz Ohly.

Reviewer: I think you should not undersell your work here, I am truthfully unfamiliar with the deep technical detail but saying something like "Before my GSoC project, we could only do x and y. Now we can do XY & Z together with this unified interface". This will make it very clear why someone should read this post.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, this project was no small feat. Just look at how long it's taken other frameworks to (not) add support for new modalities!

Author: Thanks for the comments! I'll add this in as well.

## Loading the data in a container

> To start working, we'll have to take our tabular data and load it in such that it supports the interface defined by [Tables.jl](https://tables.juliadata.org/stable/#Implementing-the-Interface-(i.e.-becoming-a-Tables.jl-source)-1). Most of the popular packages for loading in data from different formats do so already, so you probably won't have to worry about this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, we'll have to take our tabular data and load it in such that it supports the interface defined by [Tables.jl](https://tables.juliadata.org/stable/#Implementing-the-Interface-(i.e.-becoming-a-Tables.jl-source)-1). Most of the popular packages for loading in data from different formats do so already, so you probably won't have to worry about this.
```
Maybe I am just missing something but this does not make that much sense. Can you try to simplify this?

> Here, we have a `path` to a csv file, which we'll load in using [CSV.jl](https://github.com/JuliaData/CSV.jl) package, and get a DataFrame using [DataFrames.jl](https://github.com/JuliaData/DataFrames.jl).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, we have the `path` to a CSV file, which we'll load in using the [CSV.jl](https://github.com/JuliaData/CSV.jl) package and then insert the data into a DataFrame using [DataFrames.jl](https://github.com/JuliaData/DataFrames.jl).  
```

> If your data is present in a different format, you could use a package which supports loading that format, provided that the final object created supports the required interface.

Reviewer: What is this required interface? Can you link it? Or is this a general comment?

Reviewer: Ah, seems like you are referring to the Tables.jl Interface, maybe explicitly note that?

Author: Yes, this was referring to the Tables.jl interface. Sure I'll do that.

```julia
julia> using CSV, DataFrames

julia> using FastAI, FastAI.Datasets

julia> path = joinpath(datasetpath("adult_sample") , "adult.csv");

> julia> df = CSV.File(path)|> DataFrames.DataFrame; first(df, 5)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
julia> df = DataFrames.DataFrame(CSV.File(path))

julia> first(df, 5)
```

```julia
julia> td = TableDataset(df)
TableDataset{DataFrame}(32561×15 DataFrame
   Row │ age    workclass          fnlwgt  education      education-num  marital-status       occupation         ⋯
       │ Int64  String             Int64   String         Float64?       String               String?            ⋯
───────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
     1 │    49   Private           101320   Assoc-acdm             12.0   Married-civ-spouse  missing            ⋯
     2 │    44   Private           236746   Masters                14.0   Divorced             Exec-managerial
   ⋮   │   ⋮            ⋮            ⋮           ⋮              ⋮                 ⋮                   ⋮          ⋱
 32560 │    32   Local-gov         217296   HS-grad                 9.0   Married-civ-spouse   Transport-moving
 32561 │    26   Private           182308   Some-college           10.0   Married-civ-spouse   Prof-specialty
                                                                                  8 columns and 32557 rows omitted)

```

> What this `TableDataset` object allows us to do is that we can get any observation at a particular index by using `getindex(td, index)` and the total number of observations by using `nobs(td)`.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add in a line about why this is cool, and how it generalises the usual `getindex` based approach for arrays to data frames?

```julia
julia> getobs(td, 3)
DataFrameRow
 Row │ age    workclass  fnlwgt  education  education-num  marital-status  occupation  relationship  race    sex ⋯
     │ Int64  String     Int64   String     Float64?       String          String?     String        String  Str ⋯
─────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   3 │    38   Private    96185   HS-grad         missing   Divorced       missing      Unmarried     Black   Fe ⋯
                                                                                                 6 columns omitted

julia> nobs(td)
32561
```

## Data Preprocessing

Although, we have loaded the data in a container which can be used later while creating a `DataLoader` and training, often we would like to perform transformations on it.  

> The tabular transformations are defined as a part of the `DataAugmentation.jl` package, and the currently available ones are: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tabular transformations are defined as a part of the `[DataAugmentation.jl](https://github.com/lorenzoh/DataAugmentation.jl)` package, and the currently available ones are: 
```

 - Normalization
 - FillMissing
 - Categorify

### Normalization

> The `Normalization` transformation involves normalizing a row of data using the mean and standard deviation of the columns. To start with we'll have to create a `Dict` which contains the required information for all rows to be normalized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Normalization` transformation involves normalizing a row of data using the mean and standard deviation of the columns. To start, we'll have to create a `Dict` which contains the required information for all rows to be normalized.
```

  Symbol("hours-per-week") => (40.4375, 12.3474)
```

After getting `normstats` dictionary, we can create the `NormalizeRow` object which will help us perform this transformation.

```julia
julia> normalize = DataAugmentation.NormalizeRow(normstats, continuous_cols);
```

Now let's quickly get a row of data and see `NormalizeRow` in action.

All the transformations work on `TabularItem` objects and use the `apply` function for transforming the data.

```julia
julia> row = getobs(td, 1)
DataFrameRow
 Row │ age    workclass  fnlwgt  education    education-num  marital-status       occupation  relationship  race ⋯
     │ Int64  String     Int64   String       Float64?       String               String?     String        Stri ⋯
─────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   1 │    49   Private   101320   Assoc-acdm           12.0   Married-civ-spouse  missing      Wife          Whi ⋯
                                                                                                 7 columns omitted

julia> item = DataAugmentation.TabularItem(row, Tables.columnnames(df));

> julia> DataAugmentation.apply(normalize, item).data

Reviewer 3: Show the `TablularItem` here to clarify what is written in the next sentence? We never see the `TabularItem` post normalisation.
